### Connection Parameters

The following table lists the connection parameters currently offered by the driver. Connection parameter values are case-sensitive unless stated otherwise.

Our goal is consistency for the connection parameters offered by this driver and the Teradata JDBC Driver, with respect to connection parameter names and functionality. For comparison, Teradata JDBC Driver connection parameters are [documented here](https://downloads.teradata.com/doc/connectivity/jdbc/reference/current/jdbcug_chapter_2.html#BGBHDDGB).

Parameter               | Default     | Type           | Description
----------------------- | ----------- | -------------- | ---
`account`               |             | string         | Specifies the database account. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `ACCOUNT` connection parameter.
`browser`               |             | string         | Specifies the command to open the browser for Browser Authentication when `logmech` is `BROWSER`. Browser Authentication is supported for Windows and macOS. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `BROWSER` connection parameter.<br/>The specified command must include a placeholder token, literally specified as `PLACEHOLDER`, which the driver will replace with the Identity Provider authorization endpoint URL. The `PLACEHOLDER` token is case-sensitive and must be specified in uppercase.<br/>&bull; On Windows, the default command is `cmd /c start "title" "PLACEHOLDER"`. Windows command syntax requires the quoted title to precede the quoted URL.<br/>&bull; On macOS, the default command is `open PLACEHOLDER`. macOS command syntax does not allow the URL to be quoted.
`browser_tab_timeout`   | `"5"`       | quoted integer | Specifies the number of seconds to wait before closing the browser tab after Browser Authentication is completed. The default is 5 seconds. The behavior is under the browser's control, and not all browsers support automatic closing of browser tabs. Typically, the tab used to log on will remain open indefinitely, but the second and subsequent tabs will be automatically closed. Specify `0` (zero) to close the tab immediately. Specify `-1` to turn off automatic closing of browser tabs. Browser Authentication is supported for Windows and macOS. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `BROWSER_TAB_TIMEOUT` connection parameter.
`browser_timeout`       | `"180"`     | quoted integer | Specifies the number of seconds that the driver will wait for Browser Authentication to complete. The default is 180 seconds (3 minutes). Browser Authentication is supported for Windows and macOS. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `BROWSER_TIMEOUT` connection parameter.
`code_append_file`      | `"-out"`    | string         | Specifies how to display the verification URL and code. Optional when `logmech` is `CODE` and ignored for other `logmech` values. The default `-out` prints the verification URL and code to stdout. Specify `-err` to print the verification URL and code to stderr. Specify a file name to append the verification URL and code to an existing file or create a new file if the file does not exist. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `CODE_APPEND_FILE` connection parameter.
`column_name`           | `"false"`   | quoted boolean | Controls the behavior of cursor `.description` sequence `name` items. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `COLUMN_NAME` connection parameter. False specifies that a cursor `.description` sequence `name` item provides the AS-clause name if available, or the column name if available, or the column title. True specifies that a cursor `.description` sequence `name` item provides the column name if available, but has no effect when StatementInfo parcel support is unavailable.
`concurrent_interval`   | `"1000"`    | quoted integer | Specifies the interval in milliseconds for Laddered Concurrent Connect (LCC) to wait before starting another concurrent connection attempt.
`concurrent_limit`      | `"3"`       | quoted integer | Limits the number of concurrent connection attempts.
`connect_failure_ttl`   | `"0"`       | quoted integer | Specifies the time-to-live in seconds to remember the most recent connection failure for each IP address/port combination. The driver subsequently skips connection attempts to that IP address/port for the duration of the time-to-live. The default value of zero disables this feature. The recommended value is half the database restart time. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `CONNECT_FAILURE_TTL` connection parameter.
`connect_function`      | `"0"`       | quoted integer | Specifies whether the database should allocate a Logon Sequence Number (LSN) for this session, or associate this session with an existing LSN. Specify `0` for a session with no LSN (the default). Specify `1` to allocate a new LSN for the session. Specify `2` to associate the session with the existing LSN identified by the `logon_sequence_number` connection parameter. The database only permits sessions for the same user to share an LSN. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `CONNECT_FUNCTION` connection parameter.
`connect_timeout`       | `"10000"`   | quoted integer | Specifies the timeout in milliseconds for establishing a TCP socket connection. Specify `0` for no timeout. The default is 10 seconds (10000 milliseconds).
`cop`                   | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Specifies whether COP Discovery is performed. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `COP` connection parameter.
`coplast`               | `"false"`   | quoted boolean | Specifies how COP Discovery determines the last COP hostname. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `COPLAST` connection parameter. When `coplast` is `false` or omitted, or COP Discovery is turned off, then no DNS lookup occurs for the coplast hostname. When `coplast` is `true`, and COP Discovery is turned on, then a DNS lookup occurs for a coplast hostname.
`database`              |             | string         | Specifies the initial database to use after logon, instead of the user's default database. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `DATABASE` connection parameter.
`dbs_port`              | `"1025"`    | quoted integer | Specifies the database port number. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `DBS_PORT` connection parameter.
`encryptdata`           | `"false"`   | quoted boolean | Controls encryption of data exchanged between the driver and the database. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `ENCRYPTDATA` connection parameter.
`error_query_count`     | `"21"`      | quoted integer | Specifies how many times the driver will attempt to query FastLoad Error Table 1 after a FastLoad operation. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `ERROR_QUERY_COUNT` connection parameter.
`error_query_interval`  | `"500"`     | quoted integer | Specifies how many milliseconds the driver will wait between attempts to query FastLoad Error Table 1. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `ERROR_QUERY_INTERVAL` connection parameter.
`error_table_1_suffix`  | `"_ERR_1"`  | string         | Specifies the suffix for the name of FastLoad Error Table 1. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `ERROR_TABLE_1_SUFFIX` connection parameter.
`error_table_2_suffix`  | `"_ERR_2"`  | string         | Specifies the suffix for the name of FastLoad Error Table 2. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `ERROR_TABLE_2_SUFFIX` connection parameter.
`error_table_database`  |             | string         | Specifies the database name for the FastLoad error tables. By default, FastLoad error tables reside in the same database as the destination table being loaded. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `ERROR_TABLE_DATABASE` connection parameter.
`fake_result_sets`      | `"false"`   | quoted boolean | Controls whether a fake result set containing statement metadata precedes each real result set.
`field_quote`           | `"\""`      | string         | Specifies a single character string used to quote fields in a CSV file.
`field_sep`             | `","`       | string         | Specifies a single character string used to separate fields in a CSV file. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `FIELD_SEP` connection parameter.
`govern`                | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls FastLoad and FastExport throttling by Teradata workload management rules. When set to `true` (the default), workload management rules may delay a FastLoad or FastExport. When set to `false`, workload management rules will reject rather than delay a FastLoad or FastExport. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `GOVERN` connection parameter.
`host`                  |             | string         | Specifies the database hostname.
`http_proxy`            |             | string         | Specifies the proxy server URL for HTTP connections to TLS certificate verification CRL and OCSP endpoints. The URL must begin with `http://` and must include a colon `:` and port number.
`http_proxy_password`   |             | string         | Specifies the proxy server password for the proxy server identified by the `http_proxy` parameter. This parameter may only be specified in conjunction with the `http_proxy` parameter. When this parameter is omitted, no proxy server password is provided to the proxy server identified by the `http_proxy` parameter.
`http_proxy_user`       |             | string         | Specifies the proxy server username for the proxy server identified by the `http_proxy` parameter. This parameter may only be specified in conjunction with the `http_proxy` parameter. When this parameter is omitted, no proxy server username is provided to the proxy server identified by the `http_proxy` parameter.
`https_port`            | `"443"`     | quoted integer | Specifies the database port number for HTTPS/TLS connections. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `HTTPS_PORT` connection parameter.
`https_proxy`           |             | string         | Specifies the proxy server URL for HTTPS/TLS connections to the database and to Identity Provider endpoints. The URL must begin with `http://` and must include a colon `:` and port number. The driver connects to the proxy server using a non-TLS HTTP connection, then uses the HTTP CONNECT method to establish an HTTPS/TLS connection to the destination. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `HTTPS_PROXY` connection parameter.
`https_proxy_password`  |             | string         | Specifies the proxy server password for the proxy server identified by the `https_proxy` parameter. This parameter may only be specified in conjunction with the `https_proxy` parameter. When this parameter is omitted, no proxy server password is provided to the proxy server identified by the `https_proxy` parameter. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `HTTPS_PROXY_PASSWORD` connection parameter.
`https_proxy_user`      |             | string         | Specifies the proxy server username for the proxy server identified by the `https_proxy` parameter. This parameter may only be specified in conjunction with the `https_proxy` parameter. When this parameter is omitted, no proxy server username is provided to the proxy server identified by the `https_proxy` parameter. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `HTTPS_PROXY_USER` connection parameter.
`https_retry`           | `"2"`       | quoted integer | Specifies the number of HTTPS connection retries for a single-node database. Specify `0` (zero) to turn off HTTPS connection retries. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `HTTPS_RETRY` connection parameter.
`jws_algorithm`         | `"RS256"`   | string         | Specifies the JSON Web Signature (JWS) algorithm to sign the JWT Bearer Token for client authentication. Optional when `logmech` is `BEARER` and ignored for other `logmech` values. The default `RS256` is RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-256. Specify `RS384` for RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-384. Specify `RS512` for RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `JWS_ALGORITHM` connection parameter.
`jws_cert`              |             | string         | Specifies the file name of the X.509 certificate PEM file that contains the public key corresponding to the private key from `jws_private_key`. Optional when `logmech` is `BEARER` and ignored for other `logmech` values. When this parameter is specified, the "x5t" header thumbprint is added to the JWT Bearer Token for the Identity Provider to select the public key for JWT signature verification. Some Identity Providers, such as Microsoft Entra ID, require this. When this parameter is omitted, the "x5t" header thumbprint is not added to the JWT Bearer Token. Some Identity Providers do not require the "x5t" header thumbprint. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `JWS_CERT` connection parameter.
`jws_private_key`       |             | string         | Specifies the file name of the PEM or JWK file containing the private key to sign the JWT Bearer Token for client authentication. Required when `logmech` is `BEARER` and ignored for other `logmech` values. PEM and JWK file formats are supported. The private key filename must end with the `.pem` or `.jwk` extension. A PEM file must contain the BEGIN/END PRIVATE KEY header and trailer. If a JWK file contains a "kid" (key identifier) parameter, the "kid" header is added to the JWT Bearer Token for the Identity Provider to select the public key for JWT signature verification. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `JWS_PRIVATE_KEY` connection parameter.
`lob_support`           | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls LOB support. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `LOB_SUPPORT` connection parameter.
`log`                   | `"0"`       | quoted integer | Controls debug logging. Somewhat equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `LOG` connection parameter. This parameter's behavior is subject to change in the future. This parameter's value is currently defined as an integer in which the 1-bit governs function and method tracing, the 2-bit governs debug logging, the 4-bit governs transmit and receive message hex dumps, and the 8-bit governs timing. Compose the value by adding together 1, 2, 4, and/or 8.
`logdata`               |             | string         | Specifies extra data for the chosen logon authentication method. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `LOGDATA` connection parameter.
`logmech`               | `"TD2"`     | string         | Specifies the [logon authentication method](#LogonMethods). Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `LOGMECH` connection parameter. The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission for `KRB5` Single Sign On (SSO) or any of the [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenID#OpenID_Connect_(OIDC)) methods `BEARER`, `BROWSER`, `CODE`, `CRED`, `JWT`, `ROPC`, or `SECRET`. [GSS-API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generic_Security_Services_Application_Program_Interface) methods are `KRB5`, `LDAP`, `TD2`, and `TDNEGO`. Values are case-insensitive.<br/>&bull; `BEARER` uses OIDC Client Credentials Grant with JWT Bearer Token for client authentication.<br/>&bull; `BROWSER` uses Browser Authentication, supported for Windows and macOS.<br/>&bull; `CODE` uses OIDC Device Code Flow, also known as OIDC Device Authorization Grant.<br/>&bull; `CRED` uses OIDC Client Credentials Grant with client_secret_post for client authentication.<br/>&bull; `JWT` uses JSON Web Token.<br/>&bull; `KRB5` uses Kerberos V5.<br/>&bull; `LDAP` uses Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.<br/>&bull; `ROPC` uses OIDC Resource Owner Password Credentials (ROPC).<br/>&bull; `SECRET` uses OIDC Client Credentials Grant with client_secret_basic for client authentication.<br/>&bull; `TD2` uses Teradata Method 2.<br/>&bull; `TDNEGO` automatically selects an appropriate GSS-API logon authentication method. OIDC methods are not selected.
`logon_sequence_number` |             | quoted integer | Associates this session with an existing Logon Sequence Number (LSN) when `connect_function` is `2`. The database only permits sessions for the same user to share an LSN. An LSN groups multiple sessions together for workload management. Using an LSN is a three-step process. First, establish a control session with `connect_function` as `1`, which allocates a new LSN. Second, obtain the LSN from the control session using the escape function `{fn teradata_logon_sequence_number}`. Third, establish an associated session with `connect_function` as `2` and the logon sequence number. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `LOGON_SEQUENCE_NUMBER` connection parameter.
`logon_timeout`         | `"0"`       | quoted integer | Specifies the logon timeout in seconds. Zero means no timeout.
`manage_error_tables`   | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls whether the driver manages the FastLoad error tables.
`max_message_body`      | `"2097000"` | quoted integer | Specifies the maximum Response Message size in bytes. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `MAX_MESSAGE_BODY` connection parameter.
`oauth_level`           | `"0"`       | quoted integer | Controls Single Sign On (SSO) access to Open Table Format (OTF) catalog and storage instances. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OAUTH_LEVEL` connection parameter. If `redrive` is `1` or higher and the database supports Control Data, this specifies which tokens are transmitted to the database with each request, and the database may use the tokens for SSO access to OTF catalog and storage instances. If `redrive` is `0` or the database does not support Control Data, tokens are not transmitted to the database with each request, and tokens will not be available for SSO access to OTF. <br/>&bull; `0` (the default) disables sending tokens to the database. <br/>&bull; `1` sends the token from OIDC authentication to the database for each SQL request. <br/>&bull; `2` sends the OAuth tokens from `oauth_scopes` to the database for each SQL request. <br/>&bull; `3` sends the token from OIDC authentication and the OAuth tokens to the database for each SQL request.
`oauth_scopes`          |             | string         | Specifies one or more OAuth scopes for SSO access to OTF catalog and storage instances. Multiple scopes are separated by vertical bar `\|` characters. This parameter may only be used with OIDC logon mechanisms for individual users, not for service accounts. When this parameter is specified, after successful OIDC authentication, the driver obtains an additional access token from the Identity Provider for each specified scope. Each additional access token request uses the same OIDC parameters as the initial OIDC authentication; only the scope is varied. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OAUTH_SCOPES` connection parameter.
`oidc_cache_size`       | `"20"`      | quoted integer | Specifies the maximum size of the OpenID Connect (OIDC) token cache for Browser Authentication and other OIDC methods. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_CACHE_SIZE` connection parameter.
`oidc_claim`            | `"email"`   | string         | Specifies the OpenID Connect (OIDC) claim to use for Browser Authentication and other OIDC methods. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_CLAIM` connection parameter.
`oidc_clientid`         |             | string         | Specifies the OpenID Connect (OIDC) Client ID to use for Browser Authentication and other OIDC methods. When omitted, the default Client ID comes from the database's TdgssUserConfigFile.xml file. Browser Authentication is supported for Windows and macOS. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_CLIENTID` connection parameter.
`oidc_metadata`         |             | string         | Specifies the Identity Provider metadata URL for OpenID Connect (OIDC). When this connection parameter is omitted, the default metadata URL is provided by the database. This connection parameter is a troubleshooting tool only, and is not intended for normal production usage. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_METADATA` connection parameter.
`oidc_prompt`           |             | string         | Specifies the OpenID Connect (OIDC) prompt value to use for Browser Authentication. Optional when `logmech` is `BROWSER` and ignored for other `logmech` values. Ignored unless `user` is specified as an OIDC login hint. Specify `login` for the Identity Provider to prompt the user for credentials. May not be supported by all Identity Providers. The browser tab may not close automatically after Browser Authentication is completed. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_PROMPT` connection parameter.
`oidc_scope`            | `"openid"`  | string         | Specifies the OpenID Connect (OIDC) scope to use for Browser Authentication. Beginning with Teradata Database 17.20.03.11, the default scope can be specified in the database's `TdgssUserConfigFile.xml` file, using the `IdPConfig` element's `Scope` attribute. Browser Authentication is supported for Windows and macOS. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_SCOPE` connection parameter.
`oidc_sslmode`          |             | string         | Specifies the mode for HTTPS connections to the Identity Provider. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_SSLMODE` connection parameter. Values are case-insensitive. When this parameter is omitted, the default is the value of the `sslmode` connection parameter.<br/>&bull; `ALLOW` does not perform certificate verification for HTTPS connections to the Identity Provider.<br/>&bull; `VERIFY-CA` verifies that the server certificate is valid and trusted.<br/>&bull; `VERIFY-FULL` verifies that the server certificate is valid and trusted, and verifies that the server certificate matches the Identity Provider hostname.
`oidc_token`            | `"access_token"` | string    | Specifies the kind of OIDC token to use for Browser Authentication. Specify `id_token` to use the id_token instead of the access_token. Browser Authentication is supported for Windows and macOS. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `OIDC_TOKEN` connection parameter.
`partition`             | `"DBC/SQL"` | string         | Specifies the database partition. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `PARTITION` connection parameter.
`password`              |             | string         | Specifies the database password. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `PASSWORD` connection parameter.
`proxy_bypass_hosts`    |             | string         | Specifies a matching pattern for hostnames and addresses to bypass the proxy server identified by the `http_proxy` and/or `https_proxy` parameter. This parameter may only be specified in conjunction with the `http_proxy` and/or `https_proxy` parameter. Separate multiple hostnames and addresses with a vertical bar `\|` character. Specify an asterisk `*` as a wildcard character. When this parameter is omitted, the default pattern `localhost\|127.*\|[::1]` bypasses the proxy server identified by the `http_proxy` and/or `https_proxy` parameter for common variations of the loopback address. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `PROXY_BYPASS_HOSTS` connection parameter.
`request_timeout`       | `"0"`       | quoted integer | Specifies the timeout for executing each SQL request. Zero means no timeout.
`runstartup`            | `"false"`   | quoted boolean | Controls whether the user's `STARTUP` SQL request is executed after logon. For more information, refer to [User STARTUP SQL Request](#UserStartup). Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `RUNSTARTUP` connection parameter.
`sessions`              |             | quoted integer | Specifies the number of data transfer connections for FastLoad or FastExport. The default (recommended) lets the database choose the appropriate number of connections. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SESSIONS` connection parameter.
`sip_support`           | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls whether StatementInfo parcel is used. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SIP_SUPPORT` connection parameter.
`sp_spl`                | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls whether stored procedure source code is saved in the database when a SQL stored procedure is created. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SP_SPL` connection parameter.
`sslbase64`             |             | string         | Specifies the base64url encoded contents of a PEM file that contains Certificate Authority (CA) certificates for use with `sslmode` or `oidc_sslmode` values `VERIFY-CA` or `VERIFY-FULL`. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLBASE64` connection parameter. The base64url encoded value must conform to [IETF RFC 4648 Section 5 - Base 64 Encoding with URL and Filename Safe Alphabet](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4648#section-5).<br/>Example Linux command to print the base64url encoded contents of a PEM file:<br/>`base64 -w0 < cert.pem \| tr +/ -_ \| tr -d =`
`sslca`                 |             | string         | Specifies the file name of a PEM file that contains Certificate Authority (CA) certificates for use with `sslmode` or `oidc_sslmode` values `VERIFY-CA` or `VERIFY-FULL`. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLCA` connection parameter.
`sslcapath`             |             | string         | Specifies a directory of PEM files that contain Certificate Authority (CA) certificates for use with `sslmode` or `oidc_sslmode` values `VERIFY-CA` or `VERIFY-FULL`. Only files with an extension of `.pem` are used. Other files in the specified directory are not used. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLCAPATH` connection parameter.
`sslcipher`             |             | string         | Specifies the TLS cipher for HTTPS/TLS connections. Default lets database and driver choose the most appropriate TLS cipher. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLCIPHER` connection parameter.
`sslcrc`                | `"ALLOW"`   | string         | Controls TLS certificate revocation checking (CRC) for HTTPS/TLS connections. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLCRC` connection parameter. Values are case-insensitive.<br/>&bull; `ALLOW` performs CRC for `sslmode` or `oidc_sslmode` `VERIFY-CA` and `VERIFY-FULL`, and provides soft fail CRC for `VERIFY-CA` and `VERIFY-FULL` to ignore CRC communication failures.<br/>&bull; `PREFER` performs CRC for all HTTPS connections, and provides soft fail CRC for `VERIFY-CA` and `VERIFY-FULL` to ignore CRC communication failures.<br/>&bull; `REQUIRE` performs CRC for all HTTPS connections, and requires CRC for `VERIFY-CA` and `VERIFY-FULL`.
`sslcrl`                | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls the use of Certificate Revocation List (CRL) for TLS certificate revocation checking for HTTPS/TLS connections. Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) is preferred over CRL, so CRL is used when OSCP is unavailable. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLCRL` connection parameter.
`sslmode`               | `"PREFER"`  | string         | Specifies the mode for connections to the database. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLMODE` connection parameter. Values are case-insensitive.<br/>&bull; `DISABLE` disables HTTPS/TLS connections and uses only non-TLS connections.<br/>&bull; `ALLOW` uses non-TLS connections unless the database requires HTTPS/TLS connections.<br/>&bull; `PREFER` uses HTTPS/TLS connections unless the database does not offer HTTPS/TLS connections.<br/>&bull; `REQUIRE` uses only HTTPS/TLS connections.<br/>&bull; `VERIFY-CA` uses only HTTPS/TLS connections and verifies that the server certificate is valid and trusted.<br/>&bull; `VERIFY-FULL` uses only HTTPS/TLS connections, verifies that the server certificate is valid and trusted, and verifies that the server certificate matches the database hostname.
`sslnamedgroups`        |             | string         | Specifies the TLS key exchange named groups for HTTPS/TLS connections. Multiple named groups are separated by commas. Default lets database and driver choose the most appropriate named group. Omitting this parameter is recommended. Use this parameter only for troubleshooting TLS handshake issues. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLNAMEDGROUPS` connection parameter.
`sslocsp`               | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls the use of Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) for TLS certificate revocation checking for HTTPS/TLS connections. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLOCSP` connection parameter.
`sslprotocol`           | `"TLSv1.2"` | string         | Specifies the TLS protocol for HTTPS/TLS connections. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `SSLPROTOCOL` connection parameter.
`teradata_values`       | `"true"`    | quoted boolean | Controls whether `str` or a more specific Python data type is used for certain result set column value types. Refer to the [Data Types](#DataTypes) table below for details.
`tmode`                 | `"DEFAULT"` | string         | Specifies the [transaction mode](#TransactionMode). Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `TMODE` connection parameter. Possible values are `DEFAULT` (the default), `ANSI`, or `TERA`.
`user`                  |             | string         | Specifies the database username. Equivalent to the Teradata JDBC Driver `USER` connection parameter.

<a id="COPDiscovery"></a>

