### Logon Authentication Methods

The following table describes the logon authentication methods selected by the `logmech` connection parameter.

`logmech` | Description | Usage and Requirements
----------|-------------|---
`BEARER`  | OIDC Client Credentials Grant with JWT Bearer Token for client authentication | This method is intended for automated logon by service accounts.<br/>`user`, `password`, `logdata`, and `oauth_scopes` must all be omitted when using this method.<br/>`jws_private_key` is required when using this method. `jws_cert` is also needed for Identity Providers that require an "x5t" header thumbprint.<br/>`oidc_clientid` is commonly used to override the default Client ID when using this method.<br/>`oidc_claim`, `oidc_scope`, `oidc_token`, and `jws_algorithm` are optional parameters when using this method.<br/>The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.<br/>The database must be configured with Identity Provider information for Federated Authentication. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.
`BROWSER` | Browser Authentication, also known as OIDC Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) | This method is intended for interactive logon by individual users.<br/>`password` and `logdata` must be omitted when using this method.<br/>`user` is optional when using this method. When `user` is specified, it is used as the OIDC login hint and it is included in the OIDC token cache key for token retrieval.<br/>`browser`, `browser_tab_timeout`, `browser_timeout`, `oauth_scopes`, `oidc_claim`, `oidc_clientid`, `oidc_prompt`, `oidc_scope`, and `oidc_token` are optional parameters when using this method.<br/>Browser Authentication is supported for Windows and macOS. Browser Authentication is not supported for other operating systems.<br/>The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.<br/>The database must be configured with Identity Provider information for Federated Authentication. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.
`CODE`    | OIDC Device Code Flow, also known as OIDC Device Authorization Grant | This method is intended for interactive logon by individual users.<br/>`password` and `logdata` must be omitted when using this method.<br/>`user` is optional when using this method. When `user` is specified, it is used as the OIDC login hint and it is included in the OIDC token cache key for token retrieval.<br/>`code_append_file`, `oauth_scopes`, `oidc_claim`, `oidc_clientid`, `oidc_scope`, and `oidc_token` are optional parameters when using this method.<br/>The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.<br/>The database must be configured with Identity Provider information for Federated Authentication. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.
`CRED`    | OIDC Client Credentials Grant with client_secret_post for client authentication | This method is intended for automated logon by service accounts.<br/>`user`, `password`, `oauth_scopes`, `oidc_clientid`, and `oidc_scope` must all be omitted when using this method.<br/>`logdata` must contain the Client Credentials Grant request HTTP POST Form Data encoded as Content-Type application/x-www-form-urlencoded.<br/>`oidc_claim` and `oidc_token` are optional parameters when using this method.<br/>The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.<br/>The database must be configured with Identity Provider information for Federated Authentication. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.
`JWT`     | JSON Web Token (JWT) | `logdata` must contain `token=` followed by the JSON Web Token.<br/>The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.<br/>Your application must obtain a valid JWT from an Identity Provider. The database must be configured to trust JWTs issued by your Identity Provider. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.
`KRB5`    | GSS-API Kerberos V5 | Requires a significant number of administration tasks on the machine that is running the driver.<br/>For Kerberos Single Sign On (SSO), the database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.
`LDAP`    | GSS-API Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) | Requires a significant administration effort to set up the LDAP environment. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.<br/>Once they are complete, LDAP can be used without any additional work required on the machine that is running the driver.
`ROPC`    | OIDC Resource Owner Password Credentials (ROPC) | This method is intended for interactive logon by individual users.<br/>`logdata` must be omitted when using this method.<br/>`user` and `password` are required when using this method.<br/>`oauth_scopes`, `oidc_claim`, `oidc_clientid`, `oidc_scope`, and `oidc_token` are optional parameters when using this method.<br/>The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.<br/>The database must be configured with Identity Provider information for Federated Authentication. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.
`SECRET`  | OIDC Client Credentials Grant with client_secret_basic for client authentication | This method is intended for automated logon by service accounts.<br/>`user`, `password`, and `oauth_scopes` must all be omitted when using this method.<br/>`logdata` must contain the client secret.<br/>`oidc_clientid` is commonly used to override the default Client ID when using this method.<br/>`oidc_claim`, `oidc_scope`, and `oidc_token` are optional parameters when using this method.<br/>The database user must have the "logon with null password" permission.<br/>The database must be configured with Identity Provider information for Federated Authentication. These tasks are covered in the reference Teradata Vantage&trade; Security Administration.
`TD2`     | GSS-API Teradata Method 2 | Does not require any special setup, and can be used immediately.
`TDNEGO`  | GSS-API Teradata Negotiating Mechanism | Automatically selects an appropriate GSS-API logon authentication method. OIDC methods are not selected.

<a id="ClientAttributes"></a>

